# Meeting Minutes - February, 21, 2024

## Administrative

   * Lead by Frances Paulisch
       
## Welcome

   * Antitrust policy notice
## Status of Meeting setup

* Calendar for the next month meeting chairs:
  * March '24 
    * 2024 Mar. 6th 8:00 UTC (9:00 CET) ; Oliver Fendt, Hint: In parallel to ORT Community Days (see link below)
    * 2024 Mar. 20th 16:00 UTC (17:00 CET) ; Holger Streidl
   
## Today's agenda

   * [*Administration*] (Reminder) PR for the Capabilities for the capability map in MD-Format was merged: [https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/tree/master/Tooling-Landscape/Capabilities](https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/tree/master/Tooling-Landscape/Capabilities)
How to do offline collaboration? Marcel Kurzmann did an example in the Oct. 18 meeting of this round. Example with issue: [https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/issues/97](https://github.com/Open-Source-Compliance/Sharing-creates-value/issues/97)
Homework for all to prepare to do this for other capabilities and tools. Of course, be aware that some tools fulfill more than one capability. This activity will be a big help in aligning and be a useful for many potential users. 
   * It was mentioned that there is a fairly new "operations" working group and mailing list within SPDX, please see the SPDX set of subgroups [here](https://lists.spdx.org/g/spdx/subgroups)
   * Main topic today discussion around joining forces regarding capabilities/tools and providing these in a practical and useful way to the community
   - Let's align our efforts, we don't need 10 working on capability X and 0 working on capability Y
   - Also the dependency analyzers often miss still some languages as this is such a fast-moving area
   - Short discussion about CDXGen as this seems to be quite active lately and might be of interest also in our community. Frances will try to invite the main contributor there to one of our next meetings.
   - Some discussion regarding potentially some alignment with the OWASP community. Also here Frances will try to invite a relevant colleague to one of our next meetings.
   - We then had a discussion about what technical means we could use to show the set of tools and the set of capabilities (and other relevant information) in an online form - to have a good overview. This is multi-dimensional data that we would like to view from various perspectives.
Can a git-based approach somehow provide such a view (we think probably not), how do others (like e.g. the OWASP tool center page [link](https://cyclonedx.org/tool-center/)) do this? Is a drupal-based approach potentially a solution - but such would presumably require having a hosting organization. 
We ended the discussion with an idea to select a subset of the tools and capabilities and try to show how this might look with various approaches - please consider if anyone wants to try to show this.

## Upcoming events

   * March 2024 4-5th FOSSBackstage '24 Berlin [https://24.foss-backstage.de/](https://24.foss-backstage.de/)
   * March 2024 6-7th ORT Community Days '24 Berlin [https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort/wiki/ORT-Community-Days-2024](https://github.com/oss-review-toolkit/ort/wiki/ORT-Community-Days-2024)

## AOB

   * ...
## Attendees

* Agustin Benito
* Alin Jerpelea
* Steve Kilbane
* Jari Koivisto
* Marcel Kurzmann
* Frances Paulisch
* Alberto Pianon
* Harshad Sinkar
* Holger Streidl


